## Software Engineer ( .NET)

**Vacancy** : 02

## Job Context

As an Applications Engineer designing our business application technology, you will join a growing, strong group of other software engineers in the complete design, enhancement, testing, and rollout of highly scalable software and systems.

In this role, you will draw upon your expertise in Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information System Design, Distributed Systems, Information Retrieval, and other realms to develop next-generation internal systems that will revolutionize how our customer do their business. These systems will be built with the intelligence, seamlessness, and scalability of all our software systems.

## Job Responsibilities

- Develop software and infrastructure to support next-generation business applications.
    
- Communicate directly with the customers
    
- Support business applications.
    
- Provide any kind of engineering solution and Engineering software process.
    

## Employment Status

- Full-time

## Workplace

- Work at office

## Educational Requirements

- Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Computer Science

## Experience Requirements

- 1 to 3 years
- The applicants should have experience in the following business area(s):  
    Software Company, IT Enabled Service

## Additional Requirements

- Must have good general and English communication skills.
    
- Must be flexible to work in different business and technical domains.
    
- Must be flexible to work in different software engineering roles.
    
- You should have superior computer science knowledge, good programming skills in .Net / .Net core and Javascript and expertise in large systems software development.
    
- Experience with frameworks and good knowledge of design patterns and principles.
    
- Experience in business application development is a plus but not required, as you will be working on teams developing core technology that runs end to end.
    

## Job Location

- Dhaka

## Salary

- Negotiable

## Compensation & Other Benefits

- Weekly 2 holidays, Insurance, Medical allowance, Performance bonus, Gratuity
- Lunch Facilities: Partially Subsidize
- Salary Review: Yearly
- Festival Bonus: 2