**locations** : Dhaka

**time** : Full time

**End Date**: December 31, 2024 (28 days left to apply)

**job requisition id** : `JR108256`


**_Key Responsibilities:_**

- Develop software that is well designed, testable and efficient using .NET/ Node.js & JavaScript frameworks and technologies.
- Ensure high quality, adherence to standards and best practices, high performance and scalable deliverables.
- She/he must be able to focus on the project priorities in order to deliver the required product at the scheduled time.
- She/he must be able to handle multiple simultaneous tasks and be adept at prioritizing her/his work as well as that of the team.
- Identify the problem's root cause and provide solutions accordingly.

**_Key Qualifications, Knowledge, Skills, Experience:_**

- B.Sc. in Computer Science or equivalent from any reputed University
- Minimum 1 years of experience
- Must have strong experience in object-oriented programming using C# and the latest .NET technology stack. Alternatively, strong experience in Node.js is required, and familiarity with Nest.js and Sails.js will be considered a bonus.
- Must have good experience working with relational databases like MS SQL and PostgreSQL.
- Must have good experience in Web front-end technologies – JavaScript, Angular etc.
- Should have experience in Windows and WSL2/Linux Server and source control tools like Git.

At **Surbana Jurong**, we put talent, hard work, teamwork and a fun workplace together to approach problems and solve them creatively and collaboratively. Join us in making a positive impact on the world!

**Applied link** : [Surbana Jurong](https://surbanajurong.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/careersatsmec/userHome)
