# Software QA Engineer

We are looking for a Quality Assurance (QA) engineer to develop and execute manual or automated tests to ensure product quality. Our ideal candidate will be responsible for conducting tests to ensure software runs smoothly and meets client needs.

## Key Responsibilities

- Analyze business requirements and technical specifications of the application under deployment and convert functional specifications, wireframes, user cases, and sitemaps into test documents.
- Conduct all types of application testing as needed, such as integration, system, regression, exploratory, UI, and acceptance testing methods to ensure the highest levels of quality.
- Analyze formal test results to discover and resolve defects, bugs, errors, configuration issues, and interoperability flaws.
- Maintain communications with clients.
- Review test cases and testing of other team members.
- Measure application performance and suggest improvements. 
- Collaborate with team members and ensure knowledge transfer.

## Required Skills & Qualifications

- Fresh graduates are encouraged to apply.
- B.Sc or M.Sc in Computer Science/Engineering or equivalent.
- Knowledge on object oriented programming and any programming language.
- Must have understanding of software testing life cycle.
- Able to write test cases with test test data, checklists, traceability matrix as per requirements.
- Prepare the test environment with necessary test data to verify application functionality.
- Must have a good knowledge on desktop, web and mobile applications and how they work.
- Must have a good understanding on reporting bugs/defects with appropriate details.
- Must have experience with any database system like MSSQL, Mysql, etc.
- Must have strong communication skills in English, both written and spoken.
- Must have very strong analytical skills.
- Must be proactive and able to execute tasks efficiently.
- Experience with any test automation tool/framework will be a plus.
- Familiarity with applications such as MS Office, Source control (GIT, SVN), Bug Tracker, load testing tool, screen capture tool will be plus.

## Benefits

- Yearly salary review
- Performance based bonus
- Eid festival bonus
- Hybrid work model
- Complementary meals and snacks
- Two weekly holidays (Saturday & Sunday)

## About Enosis Solutions

Enosis Solutions is an engineering powerhouse and trusted partner for software development and testing services. We design and develop web, desktop, and mobile applications for our clients that are compelling, interactive, and easy to use. Since our inception, we have been providing operational gains to startup, emerging, and established organizations throughout North America and Europe.