### Application Deadline

November 30, 2024 (Early applications will be given preference)

### Job Location

Gulshan-1, Dhaka

### Number of Vacancies: 3

### Who are we looking for?
We are looking for Dynamic individuals having the following Qualities:

### Educational Requirements
B.Sc. in Computer Science & Engineering from any reputed university.

### Experience Requirements
- 0 – 3 years of industry experience.

### Overview of the Responsibilities

- Collaborate with experienced developers to design, develop, and maintain software applications using the .NET framework.
- Write clean, maintainable, and efficient code while adhering to coding standards and best practices.
- Learn to develop and execute SQL queries, stored procedures, and database functions.
- Contribute to identifying and implementing performance optimizations and improvements.
- Assist in developing and maintaining cloud-based solutions and microservices using Azure and AWS.
- Collaborate with cross-functional teams, including designers, developers, QA engineers, and product managers, to deliver high-quality software solutions.

### Key Requirements

- Excellent problem-solving and programming skills are highly recommended.
- Clear concept in OOP and a very good understanding of design pattern is necessary.
- Familiarity with programming languages like C# (is a plus)/Python/C++.
- Basic understanding of database concepts in SQL Server, PostgreSQL, or similar database systems.
- Basic knowledge of frontend technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and popular frontend frameworks like Angular or React will be an advantage.
- Adaptability to learn new technologies and frameworks.

### Nice To Have Requirements

- High integrity and intellectuality.
- Adherent to teamwork and always represent the team in work and achievement.
- Passionate to solve problems ensuring quality.

### What's in it for you?

1. Very competitive salary and long-term benefits with excellent career opportunity in a focused & stable organization.
2. Great opportunity to work with global companies.
3. A healthy work environment with opportunity to learn from a number of highly skilled engineers.
4. Weekend: Saturday and Sunday.

### How would you apply?

If you believe you are the right candidate, then send your CV to [career@relisource.com](mailto:career@relisource.com) with the exact subject line **“FSE_NET_30092023”** by **November 30, 2024**.

**IMPORTANT:** Resume attached without above subject line will not be processed. Your CV must include your photograph.