# Introduction to the Shell and Command Line on Oracle Linux

## Introduction

This tutorial explores introductory tasks for administring Oracle Linux from the command line using the Bash shell.

### Objectives

In this tutorial, you'll:

- Run commands using a shell and the command line.
- Work with files and directories.
- Edit files with vim.
- Learn about file permissions.
- Monitor system processes.



## Deploy Oracle Linux

**Note:** If running in your own tenancy, read the `linux-virt-labs` GitHub project [README.md](https://github.com/oracle-devrel/linux-virt-labs)  and complete the prerequisites before deploying the lab environment.

1. Open a terminal on the Luna Desktop.
    
2. Clone the `linux-virt-labs` GitHub project.
    
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/oracle-devrel/linux-virt-labs.git
    ```
    
3. Change into the working directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd linux-virt-labs/ol
    ```
    
4. Install the required collections.
    
```shell
    ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml
    ```
    
5. Deploy the lab environment.
    
    ```shell
    ansible-playbook create_instance.yml -e localhost_python_interpreter="/usr/bin/python3.6"
    ```
    
    The free lab environment requires the extra variable `local_python_interpreter`, which sets `ansible_python_interpreter` for plays running on localhost. This variable is needed because the environment installs the RPM package for the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure SDK for Python, located under the python3.6 modules.
    
    The default deployment shape uses the AMD CPU and Oracle Linux 8. To use an Intel CPU or Oracle Linux 9, add `-e instance_shape="VM.Standard3.Flex"` or `-e os_version="9"` to the deployment command.
    
    > **Important:** Wait for the playbook to run successfully and reach the pause task. At this stage of the playbook, the installation of Oracle Linux is complete, and the instances are ready. Take note of the previous play, which prints the public and private IP addresses of the nodes it deploys and any other deployment information needed while running the lab.
    

## Run Commands Using a Shell and Command Line

Bash (`/bin/bash`) is an application and the default shell in Oracle Linux. When opening a terminal, Oracle Linux gives you a prompt (`$`). We'll use the terminal to enter shell metacharacters to simplify commands, structure, and output. One example is to view and set values to manage command-line history.

1. Open a terminal and connect via SSH to the ol-node-01 instance.
    
    ```shell
    ssh oracle@<ip_address_of_instance>
    ```
    
2. Verify that the default shell, `/bin/bash`, is running, and display the contents of the SHELL variable.
    
    ```shell
    echo $SHELL
    ```
    
3. Ensure you're in the user’s home directory using the tilde (`~`) metacharacter with the `cd` command.
    
    ```shell
    cd ~
    ```
    
4. Check the current number of command lines maintained by the `history` command.
    
    ```shell
    echo $HISTFILESIZE $HISTSIZE
    ```
    
5. Set `HISTSIZE` by setting the variable's value to 20.
    
    ```shell
    HISTSIZE=20
    ```
    
6. Confirm the updated size of the command-line history for an open terminal window.
    
    ```shell
    echo $HISTSIZE
    ```
    
7. View the page-wise output of the `history` command.
    
    ```shell
    history | less
    ```
    
8. Press the `q` key to quit the previous command.
    
9. View the preceding 10 commands from the history database.
    
    ```shell
    history 10
    ```
    
10. Use the `–c` option to clear previous history.
    
    ```shell
    history -c
    ```
    
11. View the cleared history.
    
    ```shell
    history
    ```
    

## Work with Files and Directories

1. Display the present working directory.
    
    ```shell
    pwd
    ```
    
2. Display a long list of all the contents of the current working directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -la
    ```
    
3. Display the file types in your current directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -Fa
    ```
    
    The `-a` shows all entries, including those starting with `.`. The `-F` appends an indicator such as `\` for a directory or `*` for an executable to each entry.
    
4. Create a directory called `temp` if one does not already exist.
    
    ```shell
    mkdir temp
    ```
    
5. Change to the `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd temp
    ```
    
6. Display the current working directory.
    
    ```shell
    pwd
    ```
    
7. Display the files and directories under the root directory of the Oracle Linux filesystem.
    
    ```shell
    ls /
    ```
    
8. Return to your home directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd ~
    ```
    
9. Change the directory to the current directory's parent directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd ..
    ```
    
10. Display the present working directory.
    
    ```shell
    pwd
    ```
    
11. Return to your previous directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd -
    ```
    
12. Create a new file called `myfile` containing the contents `hello world`.
    
    ```shell
    echo hello world > myfile
    ```
    
13. Verify the creation of the new `myfile` file.
    
    ```shell
    ls
    ```
    
14. Display the contents of the `myfile` file.
    
    ```shell
    cat myfile
    ```
    
15. Copy the `myfile` file to another file name.
    
    ```shell
    cp myfile myfile2
    ```
    
16. Display a long list of the contents of the current working directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -l
    ```
    
17. Display the `myfile2` file type.
    
    ```shell
    file myfile2
    ```
    
18. Display the file contents of `myfile2`.
    
    ```shell
    cat myfile2
    ```
    
19. Copy the `myfile2` file to the `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    cp myfile2 temp/
    ```
    
20. Display the contents of the `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -l temp/
    ```
    
21. Rename the `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    mv temp temp2
    ```
    
22. Display the file types in the current working directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -F
    ```
    
23. Recursively copy all files in the `temp2` directory to a new directory, `temp3`.
    
    ```shell
    cp -R temp2 temp3
    ```
    
24. Display a list of all files recursively starting from the current working directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -R
    ```
    
25. Create a new `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    mkdir temp
    ```
    
26. Create a new empty file called `alpha`.
    
    ```shell
    touch alpha
    ```
    
27. Display the contents of your current directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls
    ```
    
28. Delete the `alpha` file.
    
    ```shell
    rm alpha
    ```
    
29. Delete the `temp` directory.
    
    ```shell
    rmdir temp
    ```
    
30. Display the file types in your current directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -F
    ```
    
31. Starting in your home directory, search for all files named `myfile`.
    
    ```shell
    find ~ -name myfile
    ```
    
32. Start in your home directory and search for all files named `temp2`.
    
    ```shell
    find ~ -name temp2
    ```
    

## Edit Files with the Vim Text Editor

Vim is the default editor for Oracle Linux, and users control it using only their keyboard without the need for menus or a mouse.

1. Type the `vim` command from your home directory.
    
    ```shell
    vim
    ```
    
2. Press the `i` key to change into _insert text_ mode and type the following text.
    
    ```text
    Hello World
    What is your
    Waht id today's date?`
    ```
    
3. Append text to the line `What is your`.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter _normal_ mode.
    - Use the `h`, `j`, `k`, `l`, or arrow keys to navigate to the last character of the line.
    - Press the `a` key to append and insert a space with the following string _name?_.
4. Replace the _d_ character with _s_ in the line, `Waht id today’s date?`.
    
    - Press `Esc` to return to _normal_ mode.
    - Move the cursor to the third line by pressing the `j` or down arrow key. This action will move the cursor down.
    - Press `h` or the left arrow key to move the cursor to the left.
    - Bring the cursor to the _d_ character in the string _id_.
    - Press the `r` key and insert character _s_. That replaces the character _d_ with the character _s_.
5. Change the word `Waht` to `What`.
    
    - Press `Esc` and move the cursor to the third line.
    - Place your cursor on the character _a_ of the word _Waht_ and execute the `cw` command.
    - Enter the text _hat_, which changes the whole word _Waht_ to _what_.
    - Press `ESC` when finished modifying the word.
6. Copy and paste the line `Hello World`.
    
    - Press `ESC` to return to command mode.
    - Move the cursor to the beginning of the _Hello World_ line.
    - Execute the `yy` command to copy the string.
    - Execute the `p` command to paste the string. The whole line is copied and pasted.
7. Delete the additional `Hello World` line.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter command mode.
    - Move the cursor to the beginning of the second line _Hello World_ and type the `dd` command, which deletes the entire line.
8. To search for the string `What`.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter command mode.
    - Press the forward slash `/` key.
    - Enter the text _What_ and press `Enter`. The cursor automatically moves to the first string it encounters in the file. Notice that _/What_ appears at the bottom of the terminal window screen.
9. Search for the next occurrence of the same string by pressing the `n` key.
    
    - The cursor will move to the second string in the file.
10. Customize the session by displaying the line numbers.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter command mode.
    - Enter the `:set nu` command and press `Enter`. Notice that `:set nu` appears at the bottom of the terminal window screen.
11. Remove the line numbers.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter command mode.
    - Type the `:set nonu` command and press `Enter`. The line numbers disappear.
12. Quit and save the file with the changes.
    
    - Press `Esc` to enter command mode.
    - Type `:w intro.txt` and press `Enter` to save the file.
    - Type `:q` to quit. The command prompt returns.

## Learn About File Permissions

File permissions on Oracle Linux are essential for controlling access to files and directories and securing the data stored in them.

1. Ensure you are in your home directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd ~
    ```
    
2. To find the owner of the existing directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -ld
    ```
    
    The owner of the existing directory is displayed in the third column of the output.
    
3. Identify the owner of the contents in the `temp2` directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -l temp2
    ```
    
4. Change the ownership of the `temp2` directory to the root user.
    
    - Use `sudo su` command to switch to the root user/role
    - Run the change owner command.
    
    ```shell
    sudo su
    chown root temp2
    ```
    
5. Confirm the ownership change of the contents of the `temp2` directory.
    
    ```shell
    ls -l
    ```
    
6. Change the user and group ownership of its contents recursively to root and root.
    
    ```shell
    chown -R root:root temp2  
    ls -lR temp2  
    ```
    
7. Exit `su` using the `exit` command.
    
    ```shell
    exit
    ```
    
8. Ensure your system has the umask value set to 0022.
    
    ```shell
    umask
    ```
    
9. Set the umask value to 0022 if that is not its current value.
    
    ```shell
    umask 0022
    ```
    
10. Create a new directory called `perm` in the `temp3` directory.
    
    ```shell
    mkdir temp3/perm
    ```
    
11. Change to the `/etc` directory and list these four files: `group`, `motd`, `shadow`, and `fstab`.
    
    ```shell
    cd /etc  
    ls -l group motd shadow fstab
    ```
    
    > Note: In Oracle Linux, there are no permissions on the shadow file.
    
12. Copy the four files to your `~/temp3/perm` directory. The `shadow` file will fail to copy.
    
    ```shell
    cp group motd shadow fstab ~/temp3/perm
    ```
    
    > Example Output:
    > 
    > ```text
    > cp: cannot open ’shadow’ for reading: Permission denied
    > ```
    
13. Go to your `temp3` directory and verify the contents of its `~/temp3/perm` directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd ~/temp3
    ls -l perm
    ```
    
14. Change directories to your home directory.
    
    ```shell
    cd ~
    ```
    
15. Create a new directory called `test` and a new file called `test1`.
    
    ```shell
    mkdir test
    touch test/test1
    ```
    
16. Examine the default permissions of the new file `test1`.
    
    ```shell
    ls –l test/test1
    ```
    
17. Check the default permissions of the new directory `test`.
    
    ```shell
    ls –ld test
    ```
    
18. Using symbolic mode, add write (w) permission for the group permission set to the `motd` file.
    
    ```shell
    chmod g+w temp3/perm/motd
    ls -l temp3/perm
    ```
    
    Symbolic mode uses a combination of letters and symbols to add or remove permissions for each type of user.
    
19. Using octal mode, change the permissions on the `motd` file to `-rwxrw----`.
    
    ```shell
    chmod 760 temp3/perm/motd
    ls -l temp3/perm
    ```
    
    Octal mode uses values with a base 8, in this case 0-7.
    
20. Using octal mode, add write (w) permission for `other` on the file named `group`.
    
    ```shell
    chmod 646 temp3/perm/group
    ls -l temp3/perm
    ```
    
21. Identify the GID and UID for the `motd` file.
    
    ```shell
    ls -n temp3/perm/motd
    ```
    
22. Create a new directory called `notes`.
    
    ```shell
    mkdir notes
    ```
    
23. Create a new `memo` file in your `notes` directory.
    
    ```shell
    touch notes/memo
    ls -l notes/memo
    ```
    
24. Remove the read (r) permission for the owner from the `memo` file in the `notes` directory. You can use symbolic mode to do this.
    
    ```shell
    chmod u-r notes/memo
    ls -l notes/memo
    ```
    
25. View the contents of the `memo` file.
    
    ```shell
    cat notes/memo
    ```
    
    This command fails after removing the user's read permissions. Even though you are part of the group, the commands run in the terminal apply permissions in the order they appear.
    

## Monitor System Processes

Knowing how to determine a process identifier (PID), view a process tree, and kill processes is vital for running an Oracle Linux system.

1. List the processes currently running on your system.
    
    ```shell
    ps
    ```
    
2. Print a complete listing of the currently running processes.
    
    ```shell
    ps -f
    ```
    
3. Display information about every process running and then show a count of the total number of processes.
    
    ```shell
    ps -e  
    ps -e | wc -l
    ```
    
4. Again, run the `ps` command and observe the TTY column where the controlling terminal is `pts/0`.
    
    ```shell
    ps -f
    ```
    
5. Open a second terminal and connect via SSH to the ol-node-01 instance.
    
    ```shell
    ssh oracle@<ip_address_of_instance>
    ```
    
6. Run the `ps` command in the new terminal window.
    
    ```shell
    ps -f
    ```
    
    Observe the TTY column in the second terminal window, where the controlling terminal is pts/1. This behavior is because you now have two separate and concurrent terminal window sessions open simultaneously.
    
7. In your first terminal window, enter the `sleep 100` command.
    
    ```shell
    sleep 100
    ```
    
8. In the second terminal window, use the `ps` and `grep` commands to identify the PID of the `sleep` process.
    
    ```shell
    ps -ef | grep sleep
    ```
    
    You can find the PID under the second column of the output.
    
9. To terminate the sleep process, use the `kill` command with the PID argument from the second terminal window.
    
    - This example uses a PID of 29987.
    - Your PID may differ from the command presented.
    
    ```shell
    kill 29987
    ```
    
    Notice the `sleep 100` is terminated in the first terminal window.
    
10. In the second terminal window, enter the `tty` command to identify the name of this terminal window.
    
    The name appears as `/dev/pts/<n>`, where `n` is a number (for example, `/dev/pts/1`).
    
    ```shell
    tty
    ```
    
11. Return to your first terminal window.
    
12. Find the PID associated with the second terminal window.
    
    ```shell
    pgrep -t pts/1
    ```
    
13. In your first terminal window, use the `kill` command to terminate the ssh session and log off the ol-node-01 system in your second terminal window.
    
    - This example uses a PID of 29957.
    - Your PID may differ from the command presented.
    - Notice you are logged off the ol-node-01 system in the second terminal window
    
    ```shell
    kill 29957
    ```
    
14. Run the following `kill -l` (list option) commands to identify the signal names and values.
    
    ```shell
    kill -l 9  
    kill -l kill  
    kill -l 15  
    kill -l term  
    ```
    
    For signal value 9, the signal name is KILL, and for the signal name kill, the signal value is 9. For signal value 15, the signal name is TERM; for the signal name term, the signal value is 15.
    
15. In the terminal window, enter the `sleep` command and place it in the background.
    
    ```shell
    sleep 600 &
    ```
    
16. Use the `ps` command to identify the bash shell process running in that window.
    
    ```shell
    ps
    ```
    
17. Connect via SSH to the ol-node-01 system in the second terminal window.
    
    ```shell
    ssh oracle@<ip_address_of_instance>
    ```
    
18. In the second terminal window, display the process tree and provide the PID of the `sleep` process running in the first terminal window as an argument, using the `pstree -p <PID>` command.
    
    - This example uses a PID of 1252.
    - Your PID may differ from the command presented.
    
    ```shell
    pstree -p 1252
    ```
    
19. In the second terminal window, terminate the first terminal window using the `kill` command with the bash shell PID.
    
    ```shell
    kill -9 1252
    ```
    
20. In the first terminal window, enter the `ps` command and notice that the `sleep 600` process is gone.
    
    ```shell
    ps
    ```
    

## Related Links

- [Oracle Linux Documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/) 
- [Oracle Linux Training](https://www.oracle.com/goto/oraclelinuxlearning) 
- [Oracle Linux Training Station](https://www.oracle.com/goto/oltrain)